Attempting to Exploit the Database
While the individual commands
give us no reason for concern,
we have no idea what
the shellcode is doing.
Instead of using the built in shellcode,
we’ll replace it with something
that we’re in control of.
After a bit of research, we find
a promising GitHub project.
Let’s download the code,
review it, and compile it.
This file is a fairly standard
UDF library
that allows for execution of system
commands through the system function.
Moreover, according to the code, the
function exported by the shared library
after compilation is named sys_exec
as in the previous exploit.
We’ll need to create a MySQL
function with the same name
in order to execute system
commands from the database.
Now that we have reviewed the code,
we will compile the shared library.
As a prerequisite for compilation,
we need to install the MySQL
database development files.
Now that we have the dependencies
installed, we need to
remove the old object file
before generating the new one.
Looking at the Makefile, we’ll
need to make some minor adjustments
to ensure we can compile
the source file correctly.
Specifically, we need to adjust the
include directory path for the gcc command
since our Kali system is running
MariaDB and not MySQL.
The -I flags include the
header file directories.
The -shared flag tells gcc
that this is a shared library and
to generate a shared object file.
Finally, -o sets our output file name.
Now let’s compile the code by
running the make command.
Recalling the SQL commands
from the UDF exploit,
we will transfer the shared library to
the target database server as a hex dump.
We will use xxd for this.
The -p flag outputs a plain hexdump, which
makes it easier for further manipulation.
We'll use tr to delete the
new line character,
and then dump the contents
of the output to a file.
We will use xclip to copy the contents
of the hex file to the clipboard.
This will serve as our shellcode.
Now we have everything we
need to attempt to exploit Zora.
We just need to put it together.
Before we begin running the malicious
SQL commands, we will create
a variable in MariaDB for the shellcode
that we have copied to our clipboard.
Note the addition of “0x” to the
beginning of the shellcode
and the lack of single or double quotes.
This ensures that MariaDB will
read the text as binary.
Next, per the exploit instructions,
we will confirm the location
of the plugin directory.
Now, we need to output the
shellcode to a file on Zora.
The original exploit generates a
random filename for this,
but we can name it whatever we want.
This command tells MariaDB to treat the
contents of the shell variable as binary,
and to output it to a file
in the plugin directory.
Unfortunately, this is where
we encounter our first problem.
According to the error
message, the wp user
does not have permissions
to create files.
Why We Failed
While the user does have permissions to
run SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE,
the wp user is missing the FILE permissions
which allows us to run dumpfile.
To run dumpfile, we need a user account
with a higher level of permissions,
such as the root user.
Without this, we’re stuck.
We can’t further exploit Zora
with this approach.
The first logical option that comes
to mind is to go back to Ajla
and see if we can find root
(or similar) MariaDB credentials.